# ELSA Air Traffic Simulator 

This an air traffic scenario simulator featuring an Agent-Based Model (ABM) and simulating different some concepts from air traffic management. It has been developped by the ELSA project, "Empirically grounded agent based models for the future ATM scenario", funded via the Work Package E of SESAR. It aims at studying some of the new concepts foreseen by SESAR. 

More information about SESAR can be found here:

[http://www.sesarju.eu/](http://www.sesarju.eu/)

More information about the ELSA project and its results can be found here:

[http://complexworld.eu/wiki/ELSA](http://complexworld.eu/wiki/ELSA)

## Getting started

First, create a directory where you see fit to host the code. Then download the code
either using git (preferred method) via `git clone https://github.com/GGurtner/ELSA-ABM.git`. You can also download the code directly by clicking on the 'download zip' button on the right hand side and extract the archive.

Note that the code has only been tested on linux distributions like Ubuntu. It is probably not compliant with Windows or MACOS yet but will be in the future. In the following we assume that the user has a Debian-like distribution.

The code is mainly written in Python 2 so you should install it before anything else, using:

```
sudo apt-get install python
```

Then you should make sure that all the dependencies required are installed. The following python modules should be installed:

* scipy
* numpy
* shapely
* networkx
* basemap
* MySQLdb
* matplotlib
* descartes
* sklearn

For this you can use easy_install. First install easy_install using:

```
sudo apt-get install easy_install 
```

Then install all modules:

```
easy_install scipy, shapely, networkx, basemap, MySQLdb, maplotlib, descartes, sklearn
```

You will need the swig package to do the interface between C and Python, which can be installed this way:
```
sudo apt-get install swig
```

Once the source code has been downloaded and the dependencies satisfied, you can run the setup.py in the main folder in command line:

```
./setup.py
```

It will prompt you for the path of the directory you want for the results generated by the code. It then compiles the C code, makes the python wrapper for the tactical level and generates the html documentation describing the Python code.

After that you can run some tests with:

```
tests/run_all_tests.py
```

## Organization of the code

The code is organized as follows:
* the abm_strategic folder contains an ABM simulating the strategic phase, including a network builder, airlines and flights objects, and a network manager allocating the airspace to the airlines. 
* the abm_tactical folder contains a tactical model including a "mega-controller" with different rules of conflict resolution as well as a "shock generator".
* the interface folder contains very basic functions which allows to easily control the tactical model from Python.
* the libs folder gathers several hand-made libraries.
* the scripts folder contains some handy scripts which can be used as examples to produce results with the model
* the tests folder contains several scripts for unitary and manual tests. 
* the doc folder gathers the documentation, in the form of html files describing the python code and pdf files for small tutorials.

If you are in a hurry, you can start right away your own script, importing the most important functions using:

```python
from abm_strategic import *
```

and/or:

```python
from abm_tactical import *
```

More details are available in the Getting_started.pdf file in the doc/ folder on how to use them. Automatically generated documentation is also available in the doc/ folder.



# License

Copyright: Christian Bongiorno, Gérald Gurtner.

Indirect contributors: Rosario Mantegna, Salvatore Miccichè, Fabrizio Lillo, Luca Valori, Simone Pozzi, Marco Ducci.

The code IS NOT open yet and should not be disclosed without the autorization of the authors.